[Music]
Shen Parish. Nice to meet you. Nice to
meet you. We are blessed to receive you
uh in our show. Think of you. We are an
internet channel canal and uh we are in
live. Could you introduce yourself
shortly, briefly? My name is Shane
Parish. I run a podcast called The
Knowledge Project. I wrote a book called
Clear Thinking. And I run a company
called Cyrus Partners that makes
investments in other businesses. How
many books you you sold? Uh I think
we're over 300,000 now worldwide. Over
300,000.
How
many guy you've got on your community on
your YouTube channel? Uh
Oh, subscribers. So, uh, we have almost
a million people on our newsletter. I
think it's 850,000 now. Our podcast is
about 100,000 audio, uh, a little bit
over that. Um, there's I've co-authored
four books and authored one book um,
which have reached 300,000 people. And
then what's the other the YouTube is
about 400,000 people, 350,000 people.
Before that, before that, I worked for
one of our three-letter intelligence
agencies in in Canada. There is no
threeletters agency in Canada. There is
which which letter? There's only one
threeletter agency in Canada. So, I'm
not allowed to repeat the American one.
Well, there's so the American one. The
American version of what I did is uh NSA
from inside or outside. Uh well, I
worked at NSA for a little bit on sort
of uh working with them, but I worked
from the outside. Did you receive any
training to endorse this kind of inter
of intergration of questioning? Uh
wouldn't you like to know?
So, what about the topic of your books?
which people you you provide your
advices.
I think most the people who read my
books uh work in finance or professional
sports or uh Silicon Valley. There's a
lot of people where they have a lot of
leverage in their decisions and this is
what I think distinguishes uh our
audience in a lot of ways is people who
are highly ambitious or want to get
ahead and want to get an edge but also
people who make decisions where a small
difference in your ability to make a
decision can have a massive impact
whether it's either through professional
sports and you win the championship or
it's uh Wall Street where you make a
good trade trade and that trade is
leveraged in the sense that you're
making billions of dollars or Silicon
Valley where a little bit of a
difference in being slightly better or
making a slightly better product or
better decisions on priority with
product can make the difference between
winning and losing or raising another
round at a higher valuation or not
raising another round and going out of
business. And I think we naturally
attract that type of audience. We're not
trying to typically take people from a
uh you know a level 10 and move them to
a level 20. We're more trying to take
people from a level 85 and move them to
like 86 or something. What kind of
advices you provide to them?
I think at the core of what we talk
about a lot is that there's always
something you can do to improve your
situation. And so a lot of people don't
feel that they have any agency or
control over what they're doing or
what's happening in the world and they
feel overwhelmed and they feel like
there's nothing they can do about it.
And these things range from small things
to big things. And I think what I
advocate and I advocate to my children
who are 14 and 15 is that there's always
one action that you can take today
that'll put you in a better place
tomorrow, a better situation tomorrow.
Yeah. But what what is the goal for the
Wall Street trader? It's just making
billions.
Well, I'm not specifically trying to
help anybody make billions. So, I can't
speak to the motivations of people. I
think that attracts a type of person
that wants to be better at their craft
and and that manifests itself in sort of
making money. Um, I can't speak to their
motivations internally about what
they're thinking or feeling about the
money. It's just the leverage of those
decisions where they're making one
decision but the impact is spread over
such a wide area. How much for that?
It's I don't know 30 bucks for the book
you can go buy it like it's it's
available to anybody. Okay. So my
question is when you provide this kind
of advices to maximize the performance
or to maximize the
goal what is your ethic?
What is my ethic? Ethics. Ethics.
Ethics. Your ethics. If if you provide a
hammer, you can build a house. Oh. Or
you can Well, it's an interesting house.
It's an interesting question, right? Is
is the person Let me finish. Oh, sorry.
Have you ever uh thought about providing
razor blade to monkeys?
No. uh you know I I don't think about it
that way. I think people are going to
use any information in a way that
they're predisposed to use it. I don't
know if we're going to change human
nature. Uh and we're giving people
better tools to make better decisions,
but a lot of what we talk about applies
all across the board. It talks about
being a better partner to your your
partner at home. It talks about being a
better parent to your kids at home. and
it talks about less predicting the
future and more positioning yourself for
multiple possible futures. Um, if you
choose to read that book and just take
certain parts away that add leverage to
one area or one particular aspect, um,
that's not for me to judge what you're
doing with that information. That's
that's up to you. But I hope that to
find that information, you've come
across a whole bunch of other stuff that
has broadened uh your world view and and
maybe helped you very slightly be a
better partner or father. I'm a much
better father because of this. Like I I
use concepts from the book with my kids.
I'll give you one example if I can. So,
have you ever made a therapy? I have
been in therapy. How long? I did in
Well, I've been in twice. So, I did
marriage counseling before my marriage
broke up. And then I did this intensive
therapy last summer uh where a therapist
came to me and we spent 10 hours a day
together for 5 days. Without or with
drugs? No drugs. Yeah. Have you ever
tried? No. Nothing? Well, I had a
cigarette once when I was 13. One? No. I
haven't had anything illegal, though.
So, ever? Nice. So as a Canadian uh uh
the the New York Times Wait, does that
make me boring to people listening to
this? No, not at all. If if I continue
to speak, it mean that you are very
interesting for me. Okay. So if I stop
speaking, I shut down the the canal and
the the show and we're going to take
some beer. Okay. So if I continue to
speak, it's okay. So don't disturb me.
It's your former intelligence experience
that you're trying to make on me. It
doesn't work. You're starting to like
me, I think. Uh, be careful. I I I don't
like
anyone. Question. The Wall Street
Journal or the New New York Times
provide to you a nickname. What is it?
It's the guru of the guru of the Wall
Street. Yeah. The the former Canadian
spy who helps Wall Street think better.
That would be the title, I believe, of a
New York art New York Times article by
Landon Thomas, if I remember correctly.
You received like what? It pleased you.
I received what? The nickname from them.
From them. Yes. Yeah. Did Did it pleased
you or No, it was actually uh I didn't
want the article published at all. And I
tried not to I tried to have them not
publish it. And And what was their
reaction? Well, they're going to do
whatever they want to do. I mean,
journalist. Yeah. Journalist. They're
free. They're supposed to be free. I
didn't want my kids reading that. I
didn't want them on Google Your dad day
at work coming across this. I didn't
want all the attention that that would
bring to me and I didn't want the
attention that it would bring to my
former employer u because I thought it
was sort of framed in a way that while
the article was somewhat balanced, it
just it didn't serve a big purpose.
Where did did they get that? They dig on
your past. They received some
information. They some leaks. So my
recollection is they had a lot of
information on me and that and Landon
had done a lot of research and and knew
specific things about me and specific
things that I had worked on uh that were
classified and he shared some of that
with me and uh I was not pleased about
that being published and I didn't think
that there was a journalistic value to
it but I can't stop it so I mean uh that
is and he said why don't you come in for
a conversation and we'll see where it
goes and so I ended up going in to New
York to have a conversation with him and
he ended up writing I think what would
have been a what turned out to be a
better article even though I still did
not want the article written. Um but my
past life you know I used to do things
that
um I don't think attaching me
to is productive going forward.
Can you dig much more on it? No. I mean
like it's just it's not what I did. that
I worked for an intelligence agency. I
have no problem admitting that I worked
for my government to protect your
country. To protect my country, to
protect your country, to protect a whole
bunch of different allied countries. Um,
from the five eyes. Well, from the five
eyes, but sort of we partner with
everybody on occasion for different
reasons. You've been a data analysis or
or something like that. Uh, I had a
computer science background, so I'll
leave it at that.
Um, and I think that the details of what
I was do, the techniques about what I
was doing are not relevant. What we do
as a community is different. So maybe
I'll relate this to Snowden, right? So
let's think about Edward Snowden and his
document release. It was my next uh
question. Oh, okay. Perfect. And maybe
Chelsea Mannings too in the same
package. Okay. So you you have these
people who are
revealing what your government is doing
and how your government is doing that.
And so I think my nuance take on this is
what your government is up to in a
democracy should be known and it
shouldn't have surprised anybody about
what was happening on their behalf. the
techniques around which people were
using to accomplish that have no
business being published. And that is a
threat to lives. It's a threat to uh
intelligence agencies. It's a threat to
security all over the world.
Chelsea, I mean, it's the same nuance,
right? Like the document release put a
lot of people in jeopardy. It cost a lot
of money in tradecraftraft. it uh to say
that it didn't lose lives. I I don't
know the correct answer to that, but I
would have a hard time believing that uh
some sources were not. I'm going to
provide the mic to one of my friends.
We're going I think we're going to
continue this very interesting answer.
Okay. About many. Yeah.
So, they might have compromised a few
things, but they revealed both of them
including Assange uh to the world.
uh what was really going on. And it did
surprise lots of people, probably not
people like us, but it did surprise lots
of people that the United States could
behave like this, especially toward
allies,
especially to French and especially to
French because most of our present if
not all our president have been under
scrutiny from the American uh secret
service. Um right now thanks to Donald
Trump the French are realizing that the
US might not be such a good ally but so
far hasn't been a problem. How can you
explain this because we have the
information we having for 12 years at
least if we count from Snowden. How how
did we became so naive or so stupid as
French? Uh, welcome back.
I I don't think I have a good answer to
that. I I think as an analyst, what how
do you do analyze that? If you had to
write a report
to your advice as a private citizen uh
not as an analyst
and in my current I would think about it
through different lenses. One of those
lenses would be um I would expect that
each country is out for
themselves and then I would expect them
to form partnerships that are sort of
loosely formed and loosely formed
partnerships sort of evolve almost like
friendships in teenagers. Uh you go
through phases where you're best
friends, you go through phases where
you're fighting, you go through phases
where
um you hope to get to a better place.
And I think that you're you're sort of
always keeping tabs on the other person.
Um but not necessarily in a nefarious
way, but always for the better interest
of your country and your people. And I
would also suspect and and I as a
private citizen that all countries are
doing this. And just because one country
was revealed to have been doing this, I
don't uh think that it's wise to believe
that other countries are not engaged in
it. Some are just way better at it than
others.
So in this I like the terms teenage
friendship where with the US France and
the US are kind of a rough situation.
They're not really well rough for the
moment right like I and the same as
Canada. The US and Canada the tensions
right now are are pretty high. But it
doesn't change the fact that after
September 11th we're the first people
down there helping them. It doesn't
change the fact that there's California
wildfires. We're not getting along.
we're still the first people there
because at the end of the day we're best
friends. We might be fighting now uh but
we share one of the longest undefended
borders in the world and for us to get
along with them and them to get along
with us is I think you know I don't want
to take it for granted uh but I do tend
to think this is just a phase and we'll
get to a better relationship on the
other side of it. But this there is a
big problem concerning free speech
between the United States and most of
its ally. I mean whether it's Canada or
Europe
huge cultural gap going on and it's
becoming a major problem since most of
the social networks where the free
speech happens are Americans and depends
on the United States of America to be
censored or not to be censored.
I mean the US was going down the same
path that the rest of the world seemed
to be going down and then uh Donald
Trump was elected as the president of
the United States and it seems to have
taken a sharp turn towards uh more free
speech. I think my personal belief is
that that's a good thing for the world.
Um, and that free speech is the bedrock
to democracy and compromising free
speech, whether you do it through media,
whether you do it through controlled
media, whether you do it through
um con regulating conspiracy theories or
subsidies to newspapers or I don't think
that you can actually have
accountability for a government if the
media is largely funded by the
government and I do think you need free
speech because that's going to allow
independent uh media in this case like a
lot of media is state funded and when I
say state funded I mean the government
is one of the largest subscription
customers to a lot of newspapers the
local government in France it's the
local government is the same as in
Canada there's also subsidies for
journalism so there's grants that are
given to these companies that subsidize
journalistic salaries there's
advertising that's placed in the I don't
know if it's the same in France but in
Canada, you know, the the government
writ large, whether you consider it the
provincial or federal government, is a
large advertiser in newspapers. And so
newspapers are are hesitant to lose
these as their clients. So you can see
that through slanted coverage. It's just
slightly slanted, right? Like it's not
super obvious in all cases. Um however
an interesting experiment one of your
readers could do in France or any other
country is just to ask uh AI to go
through all the articles and all the
newspapers and all the journalism over
the past you know one year and is it
favorable is it non-favorable and how
biased is it and make a determination of
how biased it is and I think people will
be surprised by that. So going back to
free speech though the the reason that
free speech is important is if your
media is no longer able to function the
traditional role that it played in a
democracy then you need other media and
we live in a world where you can reach a
million people I can reach a million
people uh where somebody posting
something on X or can reach a million
people and so when you get into the
notion of regulating conspiracy theories
which a lot of these governments are
going down that path including one of
our cand candidates in Canada. It really
scares me because that means like think
of co right the Wuhan lab thing which
has largely come out to be true but at
the time it was a conspiracy theory. you
would have prevented that knowledge from
even existing in the world and penalized
and uh probably jailed or otherwise
attacked the people saying that and you
would only have controlled media giving
information to people and I think that
that is that is the beginning of the end
if not uh the second third fourth inning
of the end of democracy.
Do you think that between what happened
during COVID with this mass censorship
andformational nonsense all over the
place and AI coming uh into uh the
playing game, the playing field of media
where more and more people are asking
Grock or Open AI or Perplexity about
current event about what should I think
about this topic? how should I think
about this topic which is basically what
you teach high-end Wall Street trader to
do. Uh do you think this is going to
affect media journalism and how is it
going to affect this? Well, let's think
about this, right? So, if we think out
loud about this, I think most of the
people getting their news from
mainstream media are probably uh at
least in Canada and I would imagine this
generalizes around the world, they're 55
plus. Uh so the people reading physical
newspapers getting from legacy sort of
media are older and those people by and
large are going to become fewer and
fewer as we go forward the next 20 years
and more people are going to be younger
and more technology sort of tech first
for media whether they get it on X or
they get it from Grock or open AI. And
so if you were to form a hypothesis
around controlling what people see and
biasing a population in favor of a
political party or just suppressing the
way to do that would be to go after
conspiracy theories because the minute
you get conspiracy conspiracy theories
you can now go after AI and you can go
after what AI presents to people in that
country and the minute that you can do
that you've effectively moved from one
traditional slanted slightly uh you
know, if you were to go to the extreme,
it's controlled media to another form of
controlled media. And I think that one
of the hopes that I have is that AI gets
us out of that and we can have free
speech through AI and that gives people
better information, whether that
information is nuanced and detailed for
them and specifically tailored to them
or it's just a broad set of information
that's available. And I think that that
would be key to people.
I'm going to speak in French and my
friend going to speak in English to
translate to to you. Okay.
So, you're going to be the translator,
my friend.
about co. You told us that uh media have
been under control of governments.
But did you put yourself in the the suit
of the government who might have seen
COVID as something coming from China and
militarized?
[Applause]
was a militarized operation. It did
uh it was kind of logic to have a a
severe tight on the press and media and
severe control of uh of the media. What
is your point of view about that? Wh why
I I don't know if I agree with that
extreme situation maybe sometimes the
government need to be strong.
I I
don't I don't know if I fundamentally
agree with that. uh in the sense that I
don't think that the even in an extreme
situation if you have trust in your
government the government can come out
and say I don't know but here's our best
recommendation and give you competing
information and that competing
information then you can take and part
of what we're trying to teach people is
judgment and decision-m and critical
thinking so you can take that
information and then make your own
decisions and unfortunately I was forced
in Canada to take that information and
make my own decisions which contrib law,
right? Like I ran a home school for my
kids and you weren't allowed to do that
and you weren't allowed to do a whole
bunch of other things that uh we ended
up doing, but we knew full well the
regulations. We just opted out of them
at the time. And I I think that we lose
trust especially in our institutions
when the institutions control
information and then the information
that they have released proves to be
wrong in hindsight. So if there was
another COVID today, I think it would be
a much different situation where most
people and rightfully so. I think most
people would not be trusting of
government recommendations. And I think
that this is the the lack of when you
have that control, the byproduct is you
create this situation where you just
basically get to less and less trust
going forward.
So what kind of advices or what kind of
technique that you can teach to
government to avoid that? what what kind
of advices you can provide to them to
improve
trust between them and the population.
Well, it's interesting because I worked
for an intelligence agency and the
number one thing that matters at an
intelligence agency is trust. The public
trusts you because they can't see what
you're doing and they often can't see
how you're doing it. And nothing is more
important than that trust. And if the
lens through which government should
look at things at least one of the top
two or three is is this going to erode
trust in citizens view of the government
and that in the current context in the
current crisis that might not have a
huge impact but on the next crisis on
the next event it slowly erodess to the
point where uh like again if we had
another sort of co event today I think
the vast majority of people in general
would be slightly more skeptical uh than
they would have been before. And so we
had one shot, we wasted it, and we
haven't come out and corrected it. And
the way to come out and correct it is
like we were wrong. We we made these
assumptions. We were trying to protect
you. We're trying to do these things.
And based on the information we had and
have a full audit of that information
available to people in a very
transparent way. And if you can do that,
then you can start to establish a
baseline again where you can start to
rebuild trust. But my friend has this
concept of the trust battery where you
sort of like you start at 50% or I think
he starts at like 70 and you you either
go forward or backwards based on there.
And I think we've just gone backwards
too long. And one of the ways to get us
to move forward is not only to allow
free speech, but to have a government
that talks to its people like we're
adults instead of kids. So, we're not
telling us what to do as much as helping
us understand the various nuances of the
situation.
Have you read Peter Theel's uh uh
article in the Financial Times named a
time for trust and reconciliation?
No.
He basically advocates for something
like that is quite Wikileaks like uh
which is released all the documents
about big affairs whether it's 9/11 or
GFK MLK everything and he states that if
we release everything in a transparent
way we will rebuild trust and we will
get rid of all this conspiracy theory
nonsense. What do you think about that?
Well, I think that the flaw of that
argument is that you're trusting them to
release everything and how will you know
if they have released everything? Um, so
I think that that is like a that that
sort of argument becomes a little
suspicious in the sense of if they were
to like literally take everything and
give public access to everything. Um,
again going back to Snowden, you know,
I'm in favor of people knowing what
their governments are doing in a
democratic government uh that is elected
by the citizens. The citizens have a
right to know generally speaking what
their government is doing on their
behalf. I don't know if that translates
in I don't think it translates into
specific techniques. So if you were to
release the techniques, I think that has
a hugely negative consequence. And so in
that way, I guess I'm in favor of some
sort of withholding of information from
citizens. Uh, and I think we'd have
complete chaos if we released everything
all the time. Uh, not only that,
worldwide, it would be very destructive,
especially when it comes to u software
vulnerabilities or or something like
that that might affect a lot of systems.
Well, the back doors that the NSA
provide everywhere. Well, they have this
this there's this innate tension in any
country that that has sort of an
intelligence agency that's designed to
acquire information at the same time
protect information. And how do you
balance this tension between uh we're
supposed to acquire information for our
citizens uh and our protection and then
at the same time defend other people who
are actively trying to steal it and u
take that information. And it it's super
interesting to think about these two
competing roles uh that a lot of
organizations
play and the choices become how do we
use this? Do we do we sort of use this
to acquire information that might save
uh troops in theater or or do we use
this to protect people at home and
protect our systems? And can we do both?
And then at what cost do we reveal that
to our allies? Do we not reveal it to
our allies? And these are the decisions
that that go into some of this stuff.
What is your point of view about
cryptography?
I don't know anything about it. You
don't know anything about that? No, it's
not involved in No. What do you think
about the fact
that government tried to remove the
capability to people to send messages
without the the the capability of the
government to size it? Wait, what was
this? What? What?
Uh basically we have a coming law that
is really hard to pass but it could pass
either on the France level or European
level um asking for mandatory backd
doors for every best engineing system
whether it's signal telegrams it's just
so naive because like if you have a back
door in a system to think that you
control that back door and nobody else
can access it is just it's such flawed
thinking only we can access that back
door that that means that only we can
protect this information like I don't
believe that. How do I how do you
analyze the fact that the government try
to culpabize you because you are
protecting the terrorists, you are
protecting the drug dealers with this
kind of uh
instrument. It's like propaganda. It's
like it's an argument that's that's hard
to argue against because of the way that
it's framed, but the framing is
incorrect uh in the sense that there's
multiple solutions to these problems,
not just one solution. And a solution
that weakens privacy rights for people.
I'm a strong advocate of privacy rights.
So, I think a solution that weakens that
needs to be the solution of absolute
last resort. Uh and I don't think we're
we're anywhere near that stage. and the
tools available to governments to to do
this. What kind of advices you can
provide to diplomats to improve peace
talk and solving problem of our century?
I have a lot of hope. Maybe it it's you
believe in God. Uh I believe in
something. I'm not quite sure if it's a
god or
um I have a lot of hope and my my hope
comes from technology and my hope comes
from realizing you know we go through
like the teenage relationship thing
where you go through these fights uh
with your your friends and then you end
up you know they're the best man at your
wedding and you have to go through these
periods because they make you stronger
and these periods also help us realize
that our relationships are important
again and often especially with
governments I think we can it's so easy
to take these friendships for granted
and we forget that we are a partner in
this and we have to the best way to be a
a good partner is to be a deserving
partner and I think that often we're in
it like what's in it for us and we're
not thinking about it the same way you
think about your marriage which is how
do I make your life better and how do I
make me as a better partner for you and
how do we work together as a partnership
and as a team and I think that it's so
easy for us to go through that phase and
then come to a phase where a lot of
people come to in their marriages where
you just you take advantage of that
person and you don't do it consciously.
It's not like you're trying to take
advantage of them. You just take them
for granted and then in that moment
you've fractured your relationship and
then you have to repair it. And I like
to think that around the world, we're in
the stage of we're maybe in a fractured
relationship, but when we repair it,
it'll be stronger than it was before,
but we're going to have to go through
this phase where uh it's might be rough
for everybody for a little while. But at
the end of the day, I think that we're
going to get back to the same, if not
better place than we were before. And
then I'm optimistic for technology for
just solving a lot of these problems uh
that we have in the world including
governments thinking better and thinking
through things. And um you know it would
be interesting to see I I don't I'm not
advocating this but it'd be interesting
to see an AI run for a government seat
as an elected body and what a parallel
what that would do like if I ran a
newspaper I would run a column on this
where you have all these readings of
bills in parliament or the government
and I would have AI give me its take on
the bill uh given the situation going on
in the world. So, I have a a hopefully
less biased take on this, but a well
thought out, well nuanced take. And I
like um you know, I don't agree with
everything how Elon's going about it.
But one of the things that I'm
appreciative with Doge is that they're
trying to cut the bill sizes to a
readable length. And so you can't just
shove in a thousand pages of all these
like um pork barrel sort of like funding
that go along with the main bill. And I
also think the framing of these bills
should be different. You know, we frame
these bills like the Patriot Act. So
going back to framing, framing framing
defines how we think about a problem. So
if the Patriot Act could have included
something completely absurd and no
privacy for anybody and it would be like
you voted against the Patriot Act. And
so so often we get all of our substance
and all of our knowledge from the
headlines and then the framing the names
that we label things make it really hard
for us to disagree with them. Going back
to the privacy thing, it's framed in
such a way that you're for these uh ter
No, I'm not for these terrorists. This
is all you are against us. Exactly. And
that that framing is divisive. And so
that framing is also a way to fracture
society because then it's the people who
agree with this or disagree with this
are not like us. They're different than
us and they're less than us. And I don't
think that that is the way to think
about those things. And I think, you
know, we had this in Canada with these
truckers who came I don't it was
worldwide news. I'm sure it made it here
too. when they came downtown and they
sort of camped out and they were by and
large having fun and very disruptive to
people to businesses uh at the same
time. You know, our government labeled
them as something that they were not and
it really divided society uh in a they
used the emergency clause and I think
the court the Supreme Court if I recall
correctly found that they were not
within their right of using that. So
government overreached on their powers
uh and I don't believe that there's been
any consequences to that. This kind of
stuff happened in most western democracy
these last five years. Uh are we
drowning as democracies?
I think we've pushed uh too far to one
side and so democracies in my
understanding have naturally worked
oscillating slightly between slightly
left and slightly right. And there's
sort of like a medium that we we sort of
spend most of our time in, if that makes
sense. And I think the
last 15 years maybe we've really just
started to go a lot more extreme left
and extreme right. And both of those
things have consequences. And both of
those things u are not in my mind. I'm
more of a moderate I guess. So maybe my
bias is coming at this through a
moderate lens.
uh where I'm not extreme left, I'm not
extreme right. Um and I think that I can
I voted for multiple political parties
in my life depending on the issues that
we're facing as a country. You maybe
you've been fooled multiple time. Maybe
you know I like to believe in the best
of people though because at the end of
the day if you can't believe uh you have
no hope for the future. If uh I was
talking to somebody the other day and
they said, you know, I go oh I go visit
these companies. I forget the guy's name
from Green Oaks and I wasn't I was
listening to it but he was talking with
Patrick Oanosy was a podcast. I forget
his name. It's Matt something and he was
talking about one of the ways that they
assess a company is that it's very
intangible but it's like do people
believe the best days are ahead of it or
behind it? And I thought that that was
an interesting sort of variable on which
to look at a spectrum of things. And I
think that like countries should also
think that way like our citizens should
have hope for the future. That our best
days are ahead of us. And I think one of
the things that has fallen behind at
least I can only speak to Canada is that
equality of opportunity has changed a
lot. And the people that are being born
today are facing a lot different
opportunities than their grandparents
had. And so in two generations, we've
sort of gone um in a a direction where
people are losing hope quickly. And I
think that part of what they are losing
hope
quickly. If you are working multiple
jobs and you can't afford to put food on
your table and you're being told no all
the time by the government when you
might have a divergent view and you're
being taxed um you know at the wazoo for
working extra. I think that that just
inevitably, no matter how strongminded
you are, eventually that wears on you.
And then what do you do in those cases?
You you you see rising crime. And rising
crime in my in my mind, I'd be
interested if somebody can verify this,
is tied to opportunity. And so if you
feel like you have no opportunity, then
you might as well turn to a life of
crime. But if you feel you have an
opportunity and you feel the system is
fair and you feel you can make a
difference and you feel that hard work
can make a great living then it becomes
illogical to turn to crime. And I think
that people unconsciously feel that and
that's why we see crime rise when we see
uh a generational divide. And we were
talking about this a little earlier.
You're seeing a little bit of this in
parents too. Uh we're definitely seeing
it in Canada where younger people are
feeling um like that their opportunity
set is very different than their
grandparents.
It was very deep what you said. You
impressed me in the beginning. I thought
that you you just another empty shell
from the Silicon Valley. You are more
stronger than I I expect and I thought.
What kind of advices you can provide to
people who are supposed to
regulate conspiracy
terrorist? What kind of advices you have
to provide to them? Because in
France some of them call them the junkie
of the stupidity or the conspiracy the
terrorist are the the the conspira
conspiracy theorists are
the the it's a kind of opium for
stupids. Do you think this is the right
way to talk to them? No. I I don't think
that's the right way to talk to anybody
who believes something different than
you believe. And I don't think
government should be regulating
conspiracy theories. And so like I I
just don't think that should exist. And
I think where we go with this is if we
we educate our citizens properly through
school and they grow up in our country,
they should be able to come out of high
school or especially university, but
definitely high school too. Uh being
able to think through these things for
themselves. And if if they're not
capable at 17 to sort of look at
information online and form a reasonable
judgment and that judgment may or may
not agree with our personal take on
things. Uh but they should be able to
form a judgment based on that. And if
that judgment is different than ours,
that's okay. And if uh that judgment,
you know, I'm not going to say it should
be weighted equally to everybody else's
opinion if we're we're sort of like
trying to come to a solution to
something. Um, but I don't think that
labeling people who think differently
than us anything is is helpful. And it
just gets everybody's back up and it
makes it harder to change our minds
because once somebody labels us as as
stupid or anything like that, what do we
do? Oh, we're not How many times have
you ever been like, "Oh, you know what?
You're right. I am being stupid." You
know, never. That never happens. It
rarely happens in your closest
friendships when your your best friend
comes to you and tells you you're doing
something that that is silly or stupid.
Uh it's definitely not going to happen
when your government comes to you and
says that. And and so I think we we need
to let we need to develop people who are
capable of thinking through information
and we need to provide people uh
multiple sources of information and have
people come to their own conclusions.
The flip side of this is the problem is
you can't be an expert at everything. So
on some things you you need to pick and
choose where am I going to go deep and
where am I going to get close to the
source and where am I going to have real
real knowledge versus where am I going
to have surface knowledge and a lot of
if you think of
like I'll come back to this in a sec but
so a lot of the information we consume
is just surface knowledge it's been
filtered three or four times by somebody
else and so I have this idea called the
learning loop and the learning loop is
how we actually learn and so if you
imagine a clock you start at the 12 hand
and at the 12 hand you have an
experience. That experience can be
reading a book, it can be having a
conversation, uh it can be reading an
article and then you have at the three
hand you have reflection and reflection
is taking this information this massive
quantity of information. The higher
quality the better but we take this
quantity of information and then we
distill it. So at the sixth hand you
have this compression and the
compression is the distillation of that
experience for us and it might be one
sentence and it might be two sentences
but it's sort of like a little
distillation and then at the nine hand
you have an action. So this is the loop
the action feeds the experience. So you
take information like a big movie you
basically compress it into something
smaller and more manageable and easy to
transfer around in your head. Then you
use that information. Now, that is
information you've earned. So, you've
done the work. You've done the reading.
You're constantly updating it and you're
using that information and applying it.
So, it's it's it's still hard, but it's
easier for you to be an expert in that
area. On the other hand, most of the
information we consume is somebody's
abstractions. We're consuming the
compression. We're not consuming the
experience and the reflection. So, we
have no idea what the raw data is. We
have no idea how people thought about it
or how they shrunk it. And so we just
have this sound bite almost of
information. And that information is
generally correct, but not always
correct. And we don't know when it's
which. That's the problem. So like a
great example of this is I can I can go
home tonight and I can pull out a recipe
book and I can make that recipe. And if
I make that recipe
perfectly, you're not going to be able
to tell the difference between me and
the chef who created that recipe. But
the minute something is off in that
recipe, the minute like something just
doesn't come out quite right. And I have
no idea why because I follow the recipe.
I should have like I don't know what
happened. I don't know. But the chef
would instantly taste that food. And
with that taste, they would know your
oven is not the right temperature. It
might say 300°, but it was actually 250.
Your thermometer is not working. There
wasn't enough salt. You stirred it the
wrong way. You didn't start enough. You
let it boil when it shouldn't have
boiled. They know exactly. And why do
they know? Because they have that earned
knowledge. So, I think one of the keys
for people, whatever your theories are,
whatever your beliefs are, is just to
have a check and balance on that, which
is, do I actually have the earned
knowledge here? Am I deep enough? Can I
argue the other side of this argument?
Can I trust the other side? Can I trust
the other? Can I trust the information
I'm receiving? Uh those are key
questions. And I think in the vast
majority of cases, the answer is I might
hold this opinion, but I'm going to hold
it loosely and I'm not going to hold it
tightly. And loosely means I'm open to
changing my mind because I realize I'm
not an expert in this. I don't have all
the information and I'm missing key
pieces of information. If you think
about decision-m, the source of all
problems in decision-m is blind spots.
We we don't see something. So, if we're
playing poker and sort of the five of us
are sitting down at a poker table and I
can see all of your hands, how many
mistakes am I going to make? And the
answer is, I'm not going to make any.
I'm going to play my hands perfectly. It
doesn't mean I'm going to win, but it
means I'm going to play my hand
perfectly. And I think a lot of the
problems that we have with decisions are
that we just have these blind spots,
whether we can't relate to somebody
else. Once we've identified them as
different than us, we have no desire to
see the world through their eyes because
now all of a sudden they're different.
And I want to see the world through
other people's eyes because I want to
see what I'm missing. And it doesn't
mean I have to agree with you. But when
I'm interviewing people on the knowledge
project, my goal is I want to see what
you see. I want to smell what you smell.
And I want to think what you think. That
doesn't mean I agree with you, but I
want to see the world through your eyes
because that allows me a different lens
into the situation so that I can walk
away knowing more than I did before. And
I don't agree with, you know, a lot of
our guests on some of their takes. And I
think it's just really important to be
open-minded enough to be like, I don't
this person's an expert at what they do.
Like I want to see why they think that
or see why they feel that. Before coming
here, did you dug on us? I did a little
bit of research. Yeah. With your
previous past. No, I mean, I try not to
overthink this stuff because I would get
to I don't enjoy being interviewed. I
enjoy doing the interview. Uh so if I
overthink it too much, it can kind of
backfire uh with me because then I you
know I much prefer asking questions and
not being the center of attention.
That's why you I just have 45 minutes to
make the interview. You're afraid you
plan a dinner after us. That's why you
can escape.
No, I I was given I mean the time that I
have on my I will skip my word. No
worries. Okay. So uh I use AI Mhm. to
invoke Shukovski. Okay. A
poet. So I use
Grock to shape some question from
Shukovski. Okay. The first one. Shane,
you ever punched a wall or a man just to
feel something real? Are you one of
those soft type who thinks paints just a
metaphor?
I have never punched something to feel
something real. I have punched people in
self-defense. Uh or when I felt
threatened. Um so I guess that makes me
a puss. Did you won?
Yes.
You've got a UJ go or not? No.
How how how did you pol polish your ego?
Polished. Polished. Sorry.
You polished your ego with what?
Experiences, pain,
books. Uh that's a good question. Pain
mostly
um failure constantly trying new things
and being in public doing it. Um, you're
constantly exposed to I'm a not I don't
know sensitive is the wrong word, but
like I'm constantly exposed to to
feedback from people uh on what we're
doing. And um I think that that just
keeps me in check. And my mom also does
a really good job of, you know, when we
reached I think 750,000 readers on our
newsletter, I sent her an email and I
was like, "Oh, this is cool." and she's
like, "That's not even the population of
your city, right?" Like, it was just
sort of uh her way of being a loving
mother, but at the same time keeping me
uh small at the And my kids do a good
job of that, too. And it make me it make
you in pain that your mother tried to
keep you small. No, I think the pain
comes from, you know, I was a misfit as
a kid, a straight D student, and
nobody, very few people believed in me
or gave me a chance. And I think that
that puts a chip on people's shoulder
that gives them a fire that either that
fire can destroy them or in my case, it
can motivate you. But it also keeps you
proving things even though you've long
proven yourself, if that makes sense.
you don't actually internalize it. So,
it has this doesn't have an off switch
and that can be a bad thing. I still
have five minutes. Yeah. But can I can I
rob 10? Uh I guess yeah, but just keep
it like quickly to Okay. Okay. So, the
other question from the grave. What's
the last lie you told to yourself to get
through the nights and don't [__] me
with some fairy tales about
hope? I'm going to to repeat it. What's
the last lie you told yourself to get
through the nights? And don't bully
bullish me or [__] me. [__] me
with some fairy tales about hope.
Hope with a H. Can I repeat that? Yeah,
thank you. I speak English like a
Spanish co today. France.
Perfect. So, what was the last lie you
told yourself to get through the night?
And don't bull [__] me with some
fairy tales about hope
during
co that was probably the most stressful
time in my life.
And I would go to bed basically crying
at one point every night
um because there was no hope and the
world wasn't changing and the world
wasn't coming back and the world
disagreed with me and
um I was taking care of my kids. I'm
giving people context. my kids, my
parents, my employees for our
businesses, my friends kids, uh their
parents, and I'm I'm trying to put the
weight of the world on my shoulders and
nobody's taking care of me and I wasn't
taking care of me. And the mindset, the
lie that I told
myself, if it if you want to call it a
lie, is
that this is the rest of my life. The
world is not going to get better. And
that was the lie because I knew
rationally speaking the world was going
to get better and we were going to heal
and we were going to move on. Uh but the
lie helped me because the lie made me
realize that nothing is going to change.
So I have to change in order to survive
first and then thrive second in this
environment without things changing. And
it changed my actions and what I was
doing. And so instead of waiting for
somebody to take care of me, I started
taking care of myself. Uh I started
going to the gym. I started running
more. I cut out alcohol. I started going
to bed at the same time. And I just
started making sure that I was a
priority for myself. Um and then that
enabled me to sort of get through the
darkest times of that. I was violating
the law. Like we had people showing up
at the like it was just a disaster.
Yeah. So, still um pulling Shaw Bukovsky
out out from his grave. What's uglier to
you? The mirror at 6 a.m. or the blank
page you've been laughing at for weeks?
The mirror. I hate how I look.
Straight answer. Yeah. If you could burn
one thing, your past, your word, or this
whole rotten world, what's going to what
is it going to be? And why are you
hesitating? I'm not hesitating. I would
burn the
past. I always I I mean I definitely
endeavor to keep my word at all times.
So but be without past you don't have
future. Well without with any of those
questions like they're so easy to attack
your answer right like so without a past
you you don't learn from your mistakes.
Yeah. That's fair. So uh we still have
three minutes. Uh could you provide me
again the name of your book? Clear
Thinking. Okay. Could you advice three
or more not from you? Three other books.
Yeah. Uh I'm a big fan of poor Charlie's
Almanac which is public by or published
by Stripe Press. I'm a huge fan of uh
another book on sort of the Buffett
Munger thing called Seeking Wisdom by
Peter Bevlin. And I'm a big fan of
meditations by Marcus Aurelius, which is
a book that I come back to at certain
moments in my life. The first time I
came across that book, I think I was 17
or 18. It didn't make any sense to me.
And part of it still doesn't make sense
to me today, but I relate a lot more to
it. uh and trying to you know here you
have the most powerful man in the world
and you basically at the time could do
anything and there was no laws that
really applied to him and yet uh he's
very humble and very down to earth and
this is his private journal and there's
something about that that I find not
only intellectually attractive um but I
just find reassuring about the fact that
we can have leaders who are touching the
population that are connected to people
who are human and aren't just driven by
power or ego or money and that we can
have a real person in these jobs that
can make a difference for everybody and
bring back sort of the best of what we
can be. How do we unleash human
potential and how do we unleash society
in a way that works for everybody? And I
think those questions um I think we have
to start asking them again.
So the last question who is not a
question is could you provide advice to
the young generation? One advice to the
young
generation. Don't give
up. There's always something within your
control today that you can do to make
tomorrow better. And no matter how bleak
things look when you look up and no
matter how much you think that you're
not going to be able to do it, shrink
the gap between where you're looking and
where you want to go. And what I mean by
that is, think of a marathoner who's
running. The marathoner does not look at
the end of the race at mile three and is
like, "How do I get there? That's too
far." The marathoner when they hit their
pain when they when everything looks
bleak when they don't want to
run, they don't look two miles in the
future. They look at the next stop sign
and they tell themselves, "Can I get to
that stop sign?" And once they get to
that stop sign, it's like, "Can I get to
the next stop sign? Can I build momentum
here?" Maybe the next stop sign's 50 ft
farther than the first one. And you
start building that momentum. And that's
where you can make a difference. And the
way that you can make a difference is
there's a stop sign in your life today.
And that stop sign is what is the
smallest thing that I can work on today
that's going to put me in a better
position tomorrow. And if I can do that
and I can do it again tomorrow and I can
repeat this for the next 6 months, my
life is going to be in a dramatically
different position. And that small thing
might be learning a new skill. It might
be playing around with AI. It might be
building an app. It might be getting off
your butt and actually trying to like do
that idea that you've been telling your
friends about for years. It might be
writing the next great novel. Uh but it
starts with a paragraph. I mean, trying
to write a novel is really hard. It
starts with one sentence and then a
paragraph and then a page and then a
chapter. And I think if you shrink the
distance where you're looking, there's
always something you can do right now to
make things better tomorrow.
Shen Perish, thank you.
A pleasure.
[Music]